spec/design/modules/alu_reg_pipeline/alu_reg_pipeline.md, before:

# alu_reg_pipeline
- backend functional unit for ALU register-register operations
    - R[dest] <= R[A] op R[B]
        - see [Targeted Instructions](#targeted-instructions)
    - see [core_basics.md](../basics/core_basics.md) for the basic purpose of a functional unit in the backend of the core
- receives issued ALU reg operations, collects the register operand data values, performs the ALU operations, and writes the data back to the PRF
- pipelined with issue, operand collection, execute, and writeback stages
- bandwidth of up to 1 ALU op executed per cycle
    - maintained as long as:
        - operands are immediately gathered on the first cycle in OC stage. see [Operand Collection (OC) Stage](#operand-collection-oc-stage)
        - the PRF is always ready for writeback
        - new ALU ops continue to be issued
- utilizes alu module. see [alu.md](../alu/alu.md)
- operands can be collected through PRF register read responses or forwarded data
    - PRF register read requests were previously initiated by the issue queue. the pipeline's job is to simply collect the register values when they arrive
- operands A and B are needed for all ops in this pipeline
- the term "op" will be used throughout this spec to describe the collection of data that flows through the pipeline, inhabiting a single pipeline stage a time, starting from a cycle where issue_valid = 1'b1 and issue_ready = 1'b0. this term "op" is analagous to an instruction flowing through a simple in-order 5-stage CPU pipeline


# RTL Diagram
![alu_pipeline RTL Diagram](alu_reg_pipeline.png)


# Interfaces
Inputs interfaces blue. Output interfaces green.
These signals make more sense in combination with the information in the [Pipeline Stages](#pipeline-stages) section.

<span style="color:orange">

## seq

</span>

This is a sequential module utilizing posedge flip flops

- CLK
    - input logic
    - clock signal
- nRST
    - input logic
    - active-low asynchronous reset

<span style="color:deepskyblue">

## ALU reg op issue from IQ

</span>

input interface

- issue_valid
    - input logic
    - indicate that an ALU reg op is being issued this cycle
        - or is at least being attempted
    - a valid issue is ignored if issue_ready = 1'b0
        - i.e. the OC stage will stall with its current op instead of accepting the new issue op
    - constraints:
        - utilize as control signal to indicate an issue attempt
    - idle value:
        - 1'b0
- issue_op
    - input logic [3:0]
    - 4-bit op to apply on operands A and B to create the WB data value
    - this directly translates to the ops used by the alu module. see [alu.md](../alu/alu.md)
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - 4'hx
- issue_A_forward
    - input logic
    - == 1'b1:
        - indicate that operand A's data should be collected from the forward data bus on the next cycle when the op is in the OC stage
        - when the op enters OC stage, it utilizes the issue_A_bank signal to select which forward data bus bank to select from
    - == 1'b0:
        - indicate that operand A's data should be collected from a reg read from the PRF when the op is in the OC stage
            - this data can come at the cycle the op first enters OC stage or any cycle after
        - when the op enters OC stage, it utilizes the A_reg_read_ack to know that its reg read data is available, and utilizes A_reg_read_port and previous issue_A_bank to select the data of interest from reg_read_data_by_bank_by_port
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - 1'bx
- issue_A_bank
    - input logic [1:0]
    - indicate which bank {0, 1, 2, 3} to be used for operand A when collecting data in the OC stage
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - 2'hx
- issue_B_forward
    - input logic
    - same semantics as issue_A_forward but for operand B
- issue_B_bank
    - input logic [1:0]
    - same semantics as issue_A_bank but for operand B
- issue_dest_PR
    - input logic [6:0]
    - indicate which Physical Register [7'h0, 7'h7F] to writeback to in WB stage
    - essentially acts as a pass-through to be assigned to WB_PR when the op arrives in WB stage
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - 7'hx
- issue_ROB_index
    - input logic [6:0]
    - indicate which ROB index [7'h0, 7'h7F] to mark as complete in WB stage
    - essentially acts as a pass-through to be assigned to WB_ROB_index when the op arrives in WB stage
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - 7'hx

<span style="color:chartreuse">

## ready feedback to IQ

</span>

output interface

- issue_ready
    - output logic
    - indicate that the pipeline is not ready for a new op issue
    - must be 1'b0 when there is a valid op in OC stage which does not have both of its operands A and B either saved from a previous cycle, forwarded this cycle, or arrived through a reg read ack this cycle OR the OC stage is stalled
    - see [Operand Collection (OC) Stage](#operand-collection-oc-stage)
    - reset value:
        - 1'b1

<span style="color:deepskyblue">

## reg read info and data from PRF

</span>

input interface

- A_reg_read_ack
    - input logic
    - acknowledgement signal indicating that operand A's reg read data is available this cycle
    - the OC stage 
    - constraints:
        - utilize as control signal to indicate operand A reg read data is available
        - this signal should never be 1'b1 unless there is an op in OC stage waiting for a reg read for operand A
            - else, undefined behavior
            - this can be made an assertion in an integration-level testbench, where the IQ and PRF together should guarantee this condition
    - idle value:
        - 1'b0
- A_reg_read_port
    - input logic
    - indicate which port {0, 1} of reg_read_data_by_bank_by_port operand A in OC stage should grab its operand data value from when A_reg_read_ack = 1'b1
    - use in combination with the bank previously given by issue_A_bank
    - unused when A_reg_read_ack = 1'b0
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - 1'bx
- B_reg_read_ack
    - input logic
    - same semantics as A_reg_read_ack but for operand B
- B_reg_read_port
    - input logic
    - same semantics as A_reg_read_port but for operand B
- reg_read_data_by_bank_by_port
    - input logic [3:0][1:0][31:0]
    - collect a PRF reg read data value of interest
    - 3D array 
        - first dim: bank
            - select which bank operand A/B is interested in via the previous issue_A_bank/issue_B_bank signal, respectively
        - second dim: port
            - select which port operand A/B is interested in via the current A_reg_read_port/B_reg_read_port signal, respectively
        - third dim: 32-bit operand data value
    - values in this array are ignored by the module if they don't correspond to the OC stage A/B bank and A_reg_read_port/B_reg_read_port and A_reg_read_ack/B_reg_read_ack = 1'b1
        - to be clear, the A and B operands are completely independent in their operand ack's and (bank,port) combos
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - {4{2{32'hx}}}

<span style="color:deepskyblue">

## forward data from PRF

</span>

input interface

- forward_data_by_bank
    - input logic [3:0][31:0]
    - collect a PRF forward value of interest
    - 2D array
        - first dim: bank
            - select which bank operand A/B is interested in via the previous issue_A_bank/issue_B_bank signal, respectively
        - second dim: 32-bit operand data value
    - values in this array are ignored by the module if they don't correspond to the OC stage A/B bank and A/B needs is looking for a forward value this cycle (issue_A_forward/issue_B_forward was 1'b1 the previous cycle, when this op was issued)
        - to be clear, the A and B operands are completely independent in their operand forwards's and banks
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - {4{32'hx}}

<span style="color:chartreuse">

## writeback data to PRF

</span>

output interface

- WB_valid
    - output logic
    - indicate ALU op result should be written back to PRF
    - this coincides with there being a valid op in WB stage as all valid ALU ops write back
    - reset value:
        - 1'b0
- WB_data
    - output logic [31:0]
    - 32-bit ALU op result data to be written back to PRF
    - = R[A] op R[B]
    - don't care when WB_valid = 1'b0
    - reset value:
        - 32'h0
- WB_PR
    - output logic [6:0]
    - indicate which Physical Register [7'h0, 7'h7F] to write back to
    - final passed-through value initially given on issue_dest_PR
    - don't care when WB_valid = 1'b0
    - reset value:
        - 7'h0
- WB_ROB_index
    - output logic [6:0]
    - indicate which ROB index [7'h0, 7'h7F] to mark as complete
    - final passed-through value initially given on issue_ROB_index
    - don't care when WB_valid = 1'b0
    - reset value:
        - 7'h0

<span style="color:deepskyblue">

## writeback feedback from PRF

</span>

input interface

- WB_ready
    - input logic
    - indicate that WB stage needs to stall
    - internal pipeline logic determines how far this stall should propagate backward
    - constraints:
        - utilize as control signal to indicate WB stage should stall
    - idle value:
        - 1'b1


# Pipeline Stages
unique "ops" flow through the pipeline stages in-order from issue to writeback following typical pipeline rules. 
- on reset, the pipeline starts with all stages invalid. 
- valid ops enter the pipeline in IS stage via the [ALU reg op issue from IQ](#alu-reg-op-issue-from-iq) interface as long as issue_ready = 1'b1. 
- the pipeline moves forward when possible, stalling if necessary: PRF WB not being ready or OC stage not being ready. 
- stall conditions propagate backward where relevant. e.g. there is no need to propagate a stall backward before a pipeline bubble (stage where op is not valid). 
- see the stall conditions by stage below, where X stage valid means there is an op in X stage.

## Issue (IS) Stage
Accept new instruction issue via the [ALU reg op issue from IQ](#alu-reg-op-issue-from-iq) interface if the OC stage is signaled to be ready via the issue_ready signal. 

#### Stall Condition
- stall together with OC stage based on issue_ready
- here, stall means [ALU reg op issue from IQ](#alu-reg-op-issue-from-iq) interface is ignored

## Operand Collection (OC) Stage
Collect A and B operands. If both operand A and operand B aren't collected (from this cycle or a previous cycle) then OC stage must stall and the issue_ready signal must be 1'b0. A bubble (invalid and all other signals don't cares) is naturally inserted into this stage whenever issue_ready = 1'b1 but issue_valid = 1'b0. 

Potential operand states:
- data is being forwarded
    - (issue_ready & issue_valid & issue_A/B_forward) last cycle
    - take data from forward_data_by_bank
- data is being read via the reg file
    - (~issue_A/B_forward) when this op was issued
        - can be an arbitrary number of cycles in the past when the op was issued
        - since this issue cycle, the op had to have either just entered OC stage or been stalled in OC stage as it had an operand which wasn't ready
- data was saved from a previous cycle
    - data for operand was collected via the 2 previous states on a previous cycle 
    - data must be saved from this previous cycle in the case that OC stage stalls
        - see stall conditions below
- data is not available this cycle and was not saved on a previous cycle
    - operand stall case when none of the above are true

When the stage does not contain a valid op, issue_ready is guaranteed to be 1'b1:
- there are no operands to collect
- a stall originating in WB stage due to WB_ready = 1'b0 which propagates back to EX stage is not propagated backward through an invalid OC stage

#### Stall Condition:
- Either:
    - operand stall case as described above for either operand A or B
    - EX stage stall and OC stage valid
- a stall in this stage corresponds to issue_ready = 1'b0

## Execute (EX) Stage
Perform the R[A] op R[B] ALU operation. A bubble (invalid and all other signals don't cares) is inserted into this stage whenever EX stage is not stalled but OC stage is stalled. 

#### Stall Condition:
- WB stage stall and EX stage valid

## Writeback (WB) Stage

#### Stall Condition:
- WB_ready = 1'b0 and WB stage valid


# Assertions
- no output nor internal signal x's after reset


# Test Ideas and Coverpoints
- every op
- every combo of operand {A, B} x {forward, reg read first cycle in OC, reg read second or later cycle in OC, saved forward, saved reg read}
    - these combos should automatically cover saved forward value and saved reg read value for next cycle on OC stall case where only one operand comes in. make sure to also cover case where saved forward or saved reg read is needed due to WB stall
- there are 2^4 possible combinations of {valid, invalid} for each of the 4 pipeline stages, all of which should be reachable. ideally, cover all of them with {no stall, WB stall, OC stall, WB and OC stall}


# Targeted Instructions
- ADD
    - issue_op = 4'b0000
- SUB
    - issue_op = 4'b1000
- SLL
    - issue_op = 4'b0001
- SLT
    - issue_op = 4'b0010
- SLTU
    - issue_op = 4'b0011
- XOR
    - issue_op = 4'b0100
- SRL
    - issue_op = 4'b0101
- SRA
    - issue_op = 4'b1101
- OR
    - issue_op = 4'b0110
- AND
    - issue_op = 4'b0111

Commit message:

alu_reg_pipeline spec updates (halfway done truth table, need diagrams)

spec/design/modules/alu_reg_pipeline/alu_reg_pipeline.md, after:

# alu_reg_pipeline
- backend functional unit for ALU register-register operations
    - R[dest] <= R[A] op R[B]
        - see [Targeted Instructions](#targeted-instructions)
    - see [core_basics.md](../basics/core_basics.md) for the basic purpose of a functional unit in the backend of the core
- receives issued ALU reg operations, collects the register operand data values, performs the ALU operations, and writes the data back to the PRF
- pipelined with issue, operand collection, execute, and writeback stages
- bandwidth of up to 1 ALU op executed per cycle
    - maintained as long as:
        - operands are immediately gathered on the first cycle in OC stage. see [Operand Collection (OC) Stage](#operand-collection-oc-stage)
        - the PRF is always ready for writeback
        - new ALU ops continue to be issued
- utilizes alu module. see [alu.md](../alu/alu.md)
- operands can be collected through PRF register read responses or forwarded data
    - PRF register read requests were previously initiated by the issue queue. the pipeline's job is to simply collect the register values when they arrive
- operands A and B are needed for all ops in this pipeline
- the term "op" will be used throughout this spec to describe the collection of data that flows through the pipeline, inhabiting a single pipeline stage a time, starting from a cycle where issue_valid = 1'b1 and issue_ready = 1'b0. this term "op" is analagous to an instruction flowing through a simple in-order 5-stage CPU pipeline


# RTL Diagram
![alu_pipeline RTL Diagram](alu_reg_pipeline.png)


# Interfaces
Inputs interfaces blue. Output interfaces green.
These signals make more sense in combination with the information in the [Pipeline Stages](#pipeline-stages) section.

<span style="color:orange">

## seq

</span>

This is a sequential module utilizing posedge flip flops

- CLK
    - input logic
    - clock signal
- nRST
    - input logic
    - active-low asynchronous reset

<span style="color:deepskyblue">

## ALU reg op issue from IQ

</span>

input interface

- issue_valid
    - input logic
    - indicate that an ALU reg op is being issued this cycle
        - or is at least being attempted
    - a valid issue is ignored if issue_ready = 1'b0
        - i.e. the OC stage will stall with its current op instead of accepting the new issue op
    - constraints:
        - utilize as control signal to indicate an issue attempt
    - idle value:
        - 1'b0
- issue_op
    - input logic [3:0]
    - 4-bit op to apply on operands A and B to create the WB data value
    - this directly translates to the ops used by the alu module. see [alu.md](../alu/alu.md)
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - 4'hx
- issue_A_forward
    - input logic
    - == 1'b1:
        - indicate that operand A's data should be collected from the forward data bus on the next cycle when the op is in the OC stage
        - when the op enters OC stage, it utilizes the issue_A_bank signal to select which forward data bus bank to select from
    - == 1'b0:
        - indicate that operand A's data should be collected from a reg read from the PRF when the op is in the OC stage
            - this data can come at the cycle the op first enters OC stage or any cycle after
        - when the op enters OC stage, it utilizes the A_reg_read_ack to know that its reg read data is available, and utilizes A_reg_read_port and previous issue_A_bank to select the data of interest from reg_read_data_by_bank_by_port
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - 1'bx
- issue_A_bank
    - input logic [1:0]
    - indicate which bank {0, 1, 2, 3} to be used for operand A when collecting data in the OC stage
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - 2'hx
- issue_B_forward
    - input logic
    - same semantics as issue_A_forward but for operand B
- issue_B_bank
    - input logic [1:0]
    - same semantics as issue_A_bank but for operand B
- issue_dest_PR
    - input logic [6:0]
    - indicate which Physical Register [7'h0, 7'h7F] to writeback to in WB stage
    - essentially acts as a pass-through to be assigned to WB_PR when the op arrives in WB stage
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - 7'hx
- issue_ROB_index
    - input logic [6:0]
    - indicate which ROB index [7'h0, 7'h7F] to mark as complete in WB stage
    - essentially acts as a pass-through to be assigned to WB_ROB_index when the op arrives in WB stage
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - 7'hx

<span style="color:chartreuse">

## ready feedback to IQ

</span>

output interface

- issue_ready
    - output logic
    - indicate that the pipeline is not ready for a new op issue
    - must be 1'b0 when there is a valid op in OC stage which does not have both of its operands A and B either saved from a previous cycle, forwarded this cycle, or arrived through a reg read ack this cycle OR the OC stage is stalled
    - see [Operand Collection (OC) Stage](#operand-collection-oc-stage)
    - reset value:
        - 1'b1

<span style="color:deepskyblue">

## reg read info and data from PRF

</span>

input interface

- A_reg_read_ack
    - input logic
    - acknowledgement signal indicating that operand A's reg read data is available this cycle
    - the OC stage 
    - constraints:
        - utilize as control signal to indicate operand A reg read data is available
        - this signal should never be 1'b1 unless there is an op in OC stage waiting for a reg read for operand A
            - else, undefined behavior
            - this can be made an assertion in an integration-level testbench, where the IQ and PRF together should guarantee this condition
    - idle value:
        - 1'b0
- A_reg_read_port
    - input logic
    - indicate which port {0, 1} of reg_read_data_by_bank_by_port operand A in OC stage should grab its operand data value from when A_reg_read_ack = 1'b1
    - use in combination with the bank previously given by issue_A_bank
    - unused when A_reg_read_ack = 1'b0
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - 1'bx
- B_reg_read_ack
    - input logic
    - same semantics as A_reg_read_ack but for operand B
- B_reg_read_port
    - input logic
    - same semantics as A_reg_read_port but for operand B
- reg_read_data_by_bank_by_port
    - input logic [3:0][1:0][31:0]
    - collect a PRF reg read data value of interest
    - 3D array 
        - first dim: bank
            - select which bank operand A/B is interested in via the previous issue_A_bank/issue_B_bank signal, respectively
        - second dim: port
            - select which port operand A/B is interested in via the current A_reg_read_port/B_reg_read_port signal, respectively
        - third dim: 32-bit operand data value
    - values in this array are ignored by the module if they don't correspond to the OC stage A/B bank and A_reg_read_port/B_reg_read_port and A_reg_read_ack/B_reg_read_ack = 1'b1
        - to be clear, the A and B operands are completely independent in their operand ack's and (bank,port) combos
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - {4{2{32'hx}}}

<span style="color:deepskyblue">

## forward data from PRF

</span>

input interface

- forward_data_by_bank
    - input logic [3:0][31:0]
    - collect a PRF forward value of interest
    - 2D array
        - first dim: bank
            - select which bank operand A/B is interested in via the previous issue_A_bank/issue_B_bank signal, respectively
        - second dim: 32-bit operand data value
    - values in this array are ignored by the module if they don't correspond to the OC stage A/B bank and A/B needs is looking for a forward value this cycle (issue_A_forward/issue_B_forward was 1'b1 the previous cycle, when this op was issued)
        - to be clear, the A and B operands are completely independent in their operand forwards's and banks
    - constraints:
        - none
    - idle value:
        - {4{32'hx}}

<span style="color:chartreuse">

## writeback data to PRF

</span>

output interface

- WB_valid
    - output logic
    - indicate ALU op result should be written back to PRF
    - this coincides with there being a valid op in WB stage as all valid ALU ops write back
    - reset value:
        - 1'b0
- WB_data
    - output logic [31:0]
    - 32-bit ALU op result data to be written back to PRF
    - = R[A] op R[B]
    - don't care when WB_valid = 1'b0
    - reset value:
        - 32'h0
- WB_PR
    - output logic [6:0]
    - indicate which Physical Register [7'h0, 7'h7F] to write back to
    - final passed-through value initially given on issue_dest_PR
    - don't care when WB_valid = 1'b0
    - reset value:
        - 7'h0
- WB_ROB_index
    - output logic [6:0]
    - indicate which ROB index [7'h0, 7'h7F] to mark as complete
    - final passed-through value initially given on issue_ROB_index
    - don't care when WB_valid = 1'b0
    - reset value:
        - 7'h0

<span style="color:deepskyblue">

## writeback feedback from PRF

</span>

input interface

- WB_ready
    - input logic
    - indicate that WB stage needs to stall
    - internal pipeline logic determines how far this stall should propagate backward
    - constraints:
        - utilize as control signal to indicate WB stage should stall
    - idle value:
        - 1'b1


# Pipeline Stages
unique "ops" flow through the pipeline stages in-order from issue to writeback following typical pipeline rules. 
- on reset, the pipeline starts with all stages invalid. 
- valid ops enter the pipeline in IS stage via the [ALU reg op issue from IQ](#alu-reg-op-issue-from-iq) interface as long as issue_ready = 1'b1. 
- the pipeline moves forward when possible, stalling if necessary: PRF WB not being ready or OC stage not being ready. 
- stall conditions propagate backward where relevant. e.g. there is no need to propagate a stall backward before a pipeline bubble (stage where op is not valid). 
- see the stall conditions by stage below, where X stage valid means there is an op in X stage.

## Issue (IS) Stage
Accept new instruction issue via the [ALU reg op issue from IQ](#alu-reg-op-issue-from-iq) interface if the OC stage is signaled to be ready via the issue_ready signal. 

#### Stall Condition
- stall together with OC stage based on issue_ready
- here, stall means [ALU reg op issue from IQ](#alu-reg-op-issue-from-iq) interface is ignored

## Operand Collection (OC) Stage
Collect A and B operands. If both operand A and operand B aren't collected (from this cycle or a previous cycle) then OC stage must stall and the issue_ready signal must be 1'b0. A bubble (invalid and all other signals don't cares) is naturally inserted into this stage whenever issue_ready = 1'b1 but issue_valid = 1'b0. 

Potential operand states:
- "forwarding"
    - data is being forwarded on this cycle
    - (issue_ready & issue_valid & issue_A/B_forward) last cycle when this op was issued
    - take data from forward_data_by_bank
- "reading reg"
    - data is being read via the PRF on this cycle
    - (~issue_A/B_forward) when this op was issued, A/B_reg_read_ack on this cycle, sample value from reg_read_data_by_bank_by_port
        - can be an arbitrary number of cycles in the past when the op was issued
        - since this issue cycle, the op had to have either just entered OC stage or been stalled in OC stage as it had an operand which wasn't ready
- "saved"
    - data was saved from a previous cycle
    - data for operand was collected via the operand being "forwarding" or "reading reg" on a previous cycle 
    - data must be saved from this previous cycle in the case that OC stage stalls
        - see stall conditions below
- "waiting"
    - data is not available this cycle and was not saved on a previous cycle
    - this is creates an operand stall

When the stage does not contain a valid op, issue_ready is guaranteed to be 1'b1:
- there are no operands to collect
- a stall originating in WB stage due to WB_ready = 1'b0 which propagates back to EX stage is not propagated backward through an invalid OC stage

#### Stall Condition:
- Either:
    - operand A or B in "waiting" state on this cycle
    - EX stage stall and OC stage valid
- a stall in this stage corresponds to issue_ready = 1'b0

### OC Truth Table:
| Description | issue_A_forward on Issue Cycle | issue_B_forward on Issue Cycle | Operand A State | Operand B State | A_reg_read_ack on This Cycle | B_reg_read_ack on This Cycle | issue_ready This Cycle | Actions |
| :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: | :---: |
| issued last cycle, forward A and B this cycle | 1 | 1 | forwarding | forwarding | 0 | 0 | 1 | no stall |
| issued last cycle, forward A and B this cycle, <ins>WB stall propagated to OC stage</ins> | 1 | 1 | forwarding | forwarding | 0 | 0 | 0 | stall due to WB, save A and B values from forward_data_by_bank in OC stage |
| issued last cycle, forward A and B reg read ack this cycle | 1 | 0 | forwarding | reg reading | 0 | 1 | 1 | no stall |
| issued last cycle, forward A and B reg read ack this cycle, <ins>WB stall propagated to OC stage</ins> | 1 | 0 | forwarding | reg reading | 0 | 1 | 0 | stall due to WB, save A value from forward_data_by_bank, save B value from reg_read_data_by_bank_by_port |
| issued last cycle, A reg read ack and forward B this cycle | 0 | 1 | reg reading | forwarding | 1 | 0 | 1 | no stall |
| issued last cycle, forward A and B reg read ack this cycle, <ins>WB stall propagated to OC stage</ins> | 0 | 1 | reg reading | forwarding | 1 | 0 | 0 | stall due to WB, save A value from reg_read_data_by_bank_by_port, save B value from forward_data_by_bank |
| issued last cycle, A reg read ack and B reg read ack this cycle | 0 | 0 | reg reading | reg reading | 1 | 1 | 1 | no stall |
| issued last cycle, A reg read ack and B reg read ack this cycle, <ins>WB stall propagated to OC stage</ins> | 0 | 0 | reg reading | reg reading | 1 | 1 | 0 | stall due to WB, save A and B values from reg_read_data_by_bank_by_port |

## Execute (EX) Stage
Perform the R[A] op R[B] ALU operation. A bubble (invalid and all other signals don't cares) is inserted into this stage whenever EX stage is not stalled but OC stage is stalled. 

#### Stall Condition:
- WB stage stall and EX stage valid

## Writeback (WB) Stage

#### Stall Condition:
- WB_ready = 1'b0 and WB stage valid


# Example Operation




# Assertions
- no output nor internal signal x's after reset


# Test Ideas and Coverpoints
- every op
- every combo of operand {A, B} x {forward, reg read first cycle in OC, reg read second or later cycle in OC, saved forward, saved reg read}
    - these combos should automatically cover saved forward value and saved reg read value for next cycle on OC stall case where only one operand comes in. make sure to also cover case where saved forward or saved reg read is needed due to WB stall
- there are 2^4 possible combinations of {valid, invalid} for each of the 4 pipeline stages, all of which should be reachable. ideally, cover all of them with {no stall, WB stall, OC stall, WB and OC stall}


# Targeted Instructions
- ADD
    - issue_op = 4'b0000
- SUB
    - issue_op = 4'b1000
- SLL
    - issue_op = 4'b0001
- SLT
    - issue_op = 4'b0010
- SLTU
    - issue_op = 4'b0011
- XOR
    - issue_op = 4'b0100
- SRL
    - issue_op = 4'b0101
- SRA
    - issue_op = 4'b1101
- OR
    - issue_op = 4'b0110
- AND
    - issue_op = 4'b0111
