spec/design/modules/clock_reset.md, before:

# Clock and Reset Semantics

## Clock
- LOROF follows positive edge flip flop and memory array clocking for modules via a "CLK" signal
- only synchronous clock domains are planned to be used at this point
- clock networks are TBD
    - at this point, a simple clock network per synchronous clock domain should be feasible

## Reset
- LOROF uses asynchronous active low flip flop resets for modules via an "nRST" signal
- reset networks are TBD
    - at this point, a simple non-flopped reset network distributed to all clock domains should be feasible

### Reset Rules
- in general, reset functionality is only explicitly defined for the "idle value" inputs
    - as such, reset functionality only must be verified for "idle value" inputs
- all input signals in module specs are annotated with "idle value"s. some signals, e.g. data signals, have undefined or "x" idle values, meaning that they are don't-cares when maintaining idle behavior
- all output signals in module specs are annotated with "reset value"s. these output signals either have a guaranteed reset value, or are further annotated with dependent input signals which must be certain values. these dependent input signal values always match the "idle value" for the input signals

### Why Reset + Idle Value Rules?
- on a true reset when all the modules are integrated together, the idle values will be generated by guaranteed resets
    - e.g. for the alu_reg_mdu_iq module dispatch_attempt_by_way will be reset to 4'b0000 by the frontend. therefore, we only care about reset being correct for the idle values
- LOROF consists of arbitrarily complex mealy machines throughout the design. The combinational paths from input to output do not have to be tested on reset but they will technically be sensitizable. Again, these paths will not happen in the full integrated design, so they don't have to be explicitly defined nor tested. These mealy paths can be tested during normal operation

Commit message:

spec clock and reset and isa updates

spec/design/modules/clock_reset.md, after:

# Clock and Reset Semantics

## Clock
- LOROF follows positive edge flip flop and memory array clocking for modules via a "CLK" signal
- only synchronous clock domains are planned to be used at this point
- clock networks are TBD
    - at this point, a simple clock network per synchronous clock domain should be feasible

## Reset
- LOROF uses asynchronous active low flip flop resets for modules via an "nRST" signal
- reset networks are TBD
    - at this point, a simple non-flopped reset network distributed to all clock domains should be feasible

### Reset Rules
- output signals will behave with their reset functionality for any cycle where nRST = 1'b0 since the last CLK positive edge. once nRST = 1'b1 for the remainder of a CLK period until the next CLK positive edge, the non-reset, regular spec functionality will be followed
- in general, reset functionality is only explicitly defined for the "idle value" inputs
    - as such, reset functionality only must be verified for "idle value" inputs
- all input signals in module specs are annotated with "idle value"s. some signals, e.g. data signals, have undefined or "x" idle values, meaning that they are don't-cares when maintaining idle behavior
- all output signals in module specs are annotated with "reset value"s. these output signals either have a guaranteed reset value, or are further annotated with dependent input signals which must be certain values. these dependent input signal values always match the "idle value" for the input signals

### Why Reset + Idle Value Rules?
- on a true reset when all the modules are integrated together, the idle values will be generated by guaranteed resets
    - e.g. for the alu_reg_mdu_iq module dispatch_attempt_by_way will be reset to 4'b0000 by the frontend. therefore, we only care about reset being correct for the idle values
- LOROF consists of arbitrarily complex mealy machines throughout the design. The combinational paths from input to output do not have to be tested on reset but they will technically be sensitizable. Again, these paths will not happen in the full integrated design, so they don't have to be explicitly defined nor tested. These mealy paths can be tested during normal operation
